What is a client-server model?

In computing, a client can be a web browser or desktop application that a person interacts
with to make requests to computer servers. A server can be services such as Amazon Elastic
Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), a type of virtual server.

Deployment models for cloud computing

Cloud-Based Deployment
 Run all parts of the application in the cloud.
 Migrate existing applications to the cloud.
 Design and build new applications in the cloud.

On-Premises Deployment
 Deploy resources by using virtualization and resource management tools.
 Increase resource utilization by using application management and virtualization
technologies.

Hybrid Deployment
 Connect cloud-based resources to on-premises infrastructure.
 Integrate cloud-based resources with legacy IT applications.


Benefits of cloud computing

Trade upfront expense for variable expense
Upfront expense refers to data centres, physical servers, and other resources that you
would need to invest in before using them. Variable expense means you only pay for
computing resources you consume instead of investing heavily in data centres and servers
before you know how you’re going to use them.

Stop spending money to run and maintain data centres
Computing in data centres often requires you to spend more money and time managing
infrastructure and servers.

Stop guessing capacity
With cloud computing, you don’t have to predict how much infrastructure capacity you will
need before deploying an application.

Benefit from massive economies of scale
By using cloud computing, you can achieve a lower variable cost than you can get on your
own

Increase speed and agility
The flexibility of cloud computing makes it easier for you to develop and deploy
applications. This flexibility provides you with more time to experiment and innovate. When
computing in data centres, it may take weeks to obtain new resources that you need. By
comparison, cloud computing enables you to access new resources within minutes.

Go global in minutes
The global footprint of the AWS Cloud enables you to deploy applications to customers
around the world quickly, while providing them with low latency. This means that even if
you are located in a different part of the world than your customers, customers are able to
access your applications with minimal delays

